# first-they-came-for

There's only so many times you can read Martin Niemöller's 
["First they came"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/First_they_came_...) poem
in Facebook memes before it begins to wear.  The version you've already 
heard uses usually three or four states of parallelism: Socialists,
the Trade Unionists, the Jews, and then possibly the sick.  It 
stands to reason that the more examples added, the higher the rhetorical
effect.  But that would mean taking the trouble to type them all out.
Clearly this is a job for software.

## Example output

Output from this program might look something like this:

<i>First, they came for the Socialists, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Socialist.  Then, they came for the Trade Unionists, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Trade Unionist.  Then, they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Jew.  Then, they came for the sick, the so-called incurables, and I did not speak out, because I was not sick or incurable.  Then, they came for the Catholics, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Catholic.  Then, they came for the disabled, and I did not speak out, because I was not disabled.  Then, they came for the homosexuals, and I did not speak out, because I was not a homosexual.  Then, they came for the Bohemians, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Bohemian.  Then, they came for the Slovaks, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Slovak.  Then, they came for the Czechs, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Czech.  Then, they came for the Austrians, and I did not speak out, because I was not an Austrian.  Then, they came for the West Prussians, and I did not speak out, because I was not a West Prussian.  Then, they came for the Bolsheviks, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Bolshevik.  Then, they came for the Serbs, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Serb.  Then, they came for the Protestants, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Protestant.  Then, they came for the Albanians, and I did not speak out, because I was not an Albanian.  Then, they came for the Austrians, and I did not speak out, because I was not an Austrian.  Then, they came for the Latvians, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Latvian.  Then, they came for the Lithuanians, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Lithuanian.  Then, they came for the Estonians, and I did not speak out, because I was not an Estonian.  Then, they came for the Poles, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Pole.  Then, they came for the Freemasons, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Freemason.  Then, they came for the Ukrainians, and I did not speak out, because I was not an Ukrainian.  Then, they came for the Byelorussians, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Byelorussian.  Then, they came for the Moldavians, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Moldavian.  Then, they came for the Sammarinese, and I did not speak out, because I was not Sammarinese.  Then, they came for the Monacans, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Monacan.  Then, they came for the Yugoslavians, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Yugoslav.  Then, they came for the Romanians, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Romanian.  Then, they came for the Dutch, and I did not speak out, because I was not Dutch.  Then, they came for the Esperantists, and I did not speak out, because I was not an Esperantist.  Then, they came for the Italians, and I did not speak out, because I was not an Italian.  Then, they came for the Hungarians, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Hungarian.  Then, they came for the Danish, and I did not speak out, because I was not Danish.  Then, they came for the Belgians, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Belgian.  Then, they came for the Aegeans, and I did not speak out, because I was not an Aegean.  Then, they came for the Finns, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Finn.  Then, they came for the Croatians, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Croatian.  Then, they came for the Macedonians, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Macedonian.  Then, they came for the Luxembourgers, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Luxembourger.  Then, they came for the Montenegrans, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Montenegran.  Then, they came for the Romanis, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Romani.  Then, they came for the citizens of Danzig, and I did not speak out, because I was not a citizen of Danzig.  Then, they came for the Soviets, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Soviet.  Then, they came for the political prisoners, and I did not speak out, because I was not a political prisoner.  Then, they came for the leftists, and I did not speak out, because I was not a leftist.  Then, they came for the Jehovah's Witnesses, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Jehovah's Witness.  Then, they came for the German Mennonites, and I did not speak out, because I was not a German Mennonite.  Then, they came for the Lutherans, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Lutheran.  Then, they came for the Christian clergy, and I did not speak out, because I was not clergy.  Then, they came for the Amish, and I did not speak out, because I was not Amish.  Then, they came for the Hutterites, and I did not speak out, because I was not a Hutterite.  Then, they came for the lesbians, and I did not speak out, because I was not lesbian.  Then, they came for the transgender people, and I did not speak out, because I was not transgender.  Then, they came for the deaf, and I did not speak out, because I was not deaf.  Then, they came for me, and I told them, what took you so fucking long?</i>

I will point out here that the rhetorical device of repeating the first
few words in every sentence is called **anaphora.**  In rhetoric, **symploce** is a figure of speech in which a word or phrase is used successively at the beginning of two or more clauses or sentences and another word or phrase with a similar wording is used successively at the end of them. It is the combination of anaphora and epistrophe.   I point these facts out merely
to be pedantic for no reason.

The enclosed Python 3 script was developed by careful and detailed research of the 
[Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/German-occupied_Euraope#Occupied_countries) describing which
countries were occupied by Germany during World War II.  In total, I spent 
several minutes scanning the page and entering the descriptions of countries
into the script.

To run the script, run the script.
 
## Requirements

Python 3.  Can't you fucking read?  I just told you that you needed Python
3.  Sheesh.  Some people.